Important General Cardano Notes

Plutus

Nomenclature

* Tx - Usually stands for Transaction.
* Distributed Ledger
* Blockchain
* Consensus Algorithm
* Proof of Work
* Proof of Stake
* Variatons on Consensus
* Plutus Platform
* 'on-chain' - This is logic (code) that is written to an address on a blocchain. It never neccesaarily has to execute. But a transactional operation associated with that address will trigger the logic to execute. *Note: On Cardanos' main-chain, 'on-chain' logic is written in a language called Plutus-core. This is similar to an older language called System-F Omega (with recursive data types).
* 'off-chain' - 

Plutus is made up of multiple components:

* Plutus Platform
* Plutus-core: A 'low-level' (assebly-like language) that runs on 'on-chain'
* Plusus Tx

Cardify finds that only 16.9% of investors who have bought crypto “fully understand” the value and potential of cryptocurrency, while 33.5% of buyers have either zero knowledge about the space or would call their level of understanding “emerging.”




What would happen if a close endpoint is not programmed into a smart contract (script)?

In order to change the state of the blockchain, there must be a new Tx that consume UTxO and create new ones.

UTxOs will never spring into action themselves

**New Transactions Change State - generated by a wallet**

UTxOs just sit there

You need to have a close clause

Blockchain - need an external trigger to change state

However, wallet logic (off-chain) can do sophisticated logic

On-chain part - about validation - is it allowed to consume a given UTxO

off-chain - lives in wallet - constructs and subits transactions (both are IMPOrtANANT)






Redeemers (arbtrary paramaters / pieces of data)

DATUM - OUTPUT STATE (can create state machines) - STATE OF THE UTXO [enables state machines?]

CONTEXT - COULD BE VERY RESTRICTED (JUST REDEEMER, OR FULL BLOCKCHAIN | In Cardano it's just Tx+inputs+outputs)

Plutus script gets 3 pieces of data: Datum (parameters for script), Redeemer (Input & Validation), Context (Tx, Inputs, Outputs).

In Cardano, the Context represents the Tx, including all it's inputs and outputs.

SCRIPT INPUT: Dataum, (Address), Redeemer, Context